
See the previous level README for schematic and programmers reference
information and how to run these programs.

This program assumes the chip is in a just out of reset state, that no
other software has configured the peripherals or adjusted clocks, etc.

Not going to be as detailed as blinker01, nor leave binaries or
intermediate files, use blinker01 and those files to figure out why
I can build a working program and you cant if you are having problems
compiling or linking.

The ATSAMD21 is built around a cortex-m0+ core from ARM.  That core
is ARMv6-M based and has an optional system tick timer (the chip vendor
when they compile the source code to the core has some options built
into the source code from ARM to enable or disable some features to
save space or other reasons).   It appears that for this chip the
timer is present and working.

There is an 8Mhz internal oscillator in this chip, and upon inspection
in the system control area, the chip comes out of reset with a divide
by 8 prescaler.  So that means everything is running at or based off
of 1MHz.  And this example confirms that by setting the timer to
time out every 1 million cpu clock cycles, and then then counting 8
timeouts before changing the state of the leds, they change state
every 8 seconds.

They OSC8M says it has write protection, as perhaps all/most of this
chip.  The PAC Peripheral Access Controller is used to protect writes
to peripherals.  In the post reset state the PAC register for the SYSCTL
is set to not write protected, so we dont have to do anything to
allow us to modify the OSC8M register.

By simply changing the prescaler we can adjust the speed of the clock.

This example will do three on/off cycles at 16 seconds per cycle, then
then 7 on/off cycles at 2 seconds per cycle.  Then I have some
code that shows another way to use a timer that wraps around.  By
changing the load value to all ones (this is a 24 bit timer) it counts
from 0xFFFFFF to 0x000000 and then "wraps around" to 0xFFFFFF which
means it counts forever.  I know it is a down counter because the ARM
docs said that, you have to check some timers are up some are down
some you can configure to be up or down.  So long as you dont wait
longer than a single wrap around (with some margin) you can simply
compare the difference between reading the timer one time and then
reading it later to see how much time has elapsed.  The last loop
demonstrates this.  And is the most generic as you often find a timer
can be setup to wrap around and you dont have to get into the details
of that specific timer to figure out how to check that it has finished
counting, how to re-arm it, etc.  Any wraparound timer you can just
read it once then read it again and subtract (and mask).

Remember this is not a crystal oscillator, it is not that accurate.
The docs say that there is calibration data (meaning each individual
chip is calibrated) that is loaded for us from flash into the control
register to give us better accuracy, but expect the frequency to change
for example with temperature.  If you want something more accurate
you need an external oscillator, which gets board specific, I may do
that for one/some boards or may not...will see...

blinker01 uses a variable to count to some big number to delay, this
uses the timer.  Software is not completely removed from timing, but
with blinker01, the optimization choices and compiler choice will
affect the blink rate for the same source code.  Using a timer there
still is the time from the timer timing out to when the software
reacts which is compiler and compiler options dependent.  But it is on
the order of handfuls of clocks at the end of the millions the timer
waited for.  If you were wanting to do something every 5 or 10 ticks
of the timer the software is still a major factor in the timing.
Point being using timers, when done right, increases the accuracy
of your timing and is not dependent on compiling choices.


